### Reflective discussion of the success of the project
Overall, the project has successfully accomplished the goals initially set out. The process has been a valuable learning experience for the team as well as an opportunity to engage in group work with notable challenges brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. We strongly feel that as a group we have risen to these challenges and even adapted to the environment in our favour.

Through the development process, we have successfully created a single page web app with quiz functionality. This application uses a MongoDB database of tweets, regularly updated to keep content fresh and reacts to the user’s engagement in the front end. The front end uses the Angular framework with a Node.js application server. When the user submits answers to the quiz, the database is updated to both inform the user if they were correct and presents overall information on the success of users with regards to the current quiz. Through this mechanism, the user is confronted with the reality of how accurately they Know the News as well as a more general feel of how well other people perform. Through everything outlined here, we have achieved our [projects goals](/README.md/#project-objectives) and look forward to future development opportunities.

While the scope of our project is small, we felt that a positive experience (hopefully a learning experience) was at the core of our motivation as a group and should remain central to our application’s development (as seen in [Background & Motivation](/Background_and_Motivation/#scope)). As demonstrated in our user-acceptance testing, the application can be fun as well as educational. We feel this is a terrific achievement for our team as we understand the challenges in developing an application people want to use. Keeping the user at the centre of our design process enabled periodic checking in order to make sure we were never going completely off course. Furthermore, the lecturers and teaching assistants on this unit from University of Bristol have provided invaluable guidance, always providing honest feedback and nudging us in the right direction should we ever find ourselves drifting. 

While we used user input to help with certain decisions such as the name of the application and the number of tweets to be displayed, the MVP was always a decision we made independently. Keeping the core product definition as something we owned ourselves, we were able to set realistic workload expectations and rarely had tickets carrying over from one sprint to the next.

In some ways, workload management has been made easier by the current pandemic. With the lives of our team members being so constrained, it is easier to plan meetings and communally discuss tickets when the default way to meet is from your computer. We chose not to keep to the strict 10-minute stand-up meetings popular with scrum, because it gave us a chance to catch up socially and run through the status of the project in more detail. Without any other contact outside of meetings, we found it useful to spend more time running through ideas in order to ensure everyone got the best educational experience out of the project as possible. Towards the end of the project, we inevitably began specializing and with this came more granular communication between some team members. In order to combat any disparity on the current state of the application and where it should be, we regularly held meetings with the sole purpose of one team member explaining the work they had been doing to the team in a format like our labs on Teams. Through this, we all gained as thorough an understanding of full stack development as possible, enabling highly engaged collaboration throughout the project despite pandemic-related circumstances preventing in-person meetings.

### Discussion of Social and Ethical implications

As _Know the News_ is in its prototype stage, ethical concerns associated are yet to be fully realised. Typical ethical concerns associated with web applications (and computers in general) in public use are centred around property, privacy, anonymity and security[1].

The primary/direct stakeholders of _Know the News_ are its users, defined as people with an interest in either playing a game about news media, or developing their knowledge about news media bias. The user testing and prototyping helped develop different personality profiles of the direct stakeholder. The ethical concerns outlined here will be limited to direct stakeholders. Although indirect stakeholders such as the newspapers and any public figures mentioned in tweets could be affected, all information is collected form tweets already in the public domain and therefore presents no immediate concerns related to those outlined in the above paragraph.

_Know the News_ aims to positively contribute to one’s own knowledge of their biases towards media content from various sources. Therefore, the applications function is to alter the user’s perceptions, potentially impacting their mental health, values, expectations and culture. The delicate nature of these paradigms frames this ethical discussion.

In developing _Know the News_, the prototype is iteratively tested. These people are using the prototype application and providing data without written consent. We had to be careful when collecting testing data as from a Deontic perspective, we could have conflicted with GDPR policy, as video data of users engaging with the application was initially discussed [2][3]. While this footage would not mention the users name or show their face, it would contain their voice, and following the advice of our lecturers we decided it would be the safest ethical decision to remove it from the process. 

The desire to be respectful with users’ personal data has directly impacted overall design aspects of the application. From a consequentialist perspective, we felt that the potential implications of exposing users’ private data were too risky to be considered ethical. With our application development skills in their infancy, we could not provide ourselves with a hard guarantee that we could protect users’ privacy throughout the development process. Because of this, features such as user profiles and persisted session data were not pursued. While this prevented us from implementing features such as a session of quiz questions with an overall score, we feel the core appeal of the app as well as our ethical approach have been preserved. Although Parry and Mauthner put forward that when generating data for research, the ownership of the data should be regarded as belonging to both the researcher and the respondent [4], we consider this to be an ongoing discussion we would rather not profess an ultimate answer to.

### References

[1] Himma K and Tavani H. 2008. The Handbook of Information and Computer Ethics.  John Wiley & Sons. Chapter 6
[2] Using personal data in your business or other organisation. Gov.uk .Available at https://www.gov.uk/guidance/using-personal-data-in-your-business-or-other-organisation accessed 3.1.2020.

[3] GDPR Compliance for Apps. Privacypolicies.com Available at https://www.privacypolicies.com/blog/gdpr-compliance-apps/#Key_Elements_Of_The_Gdpr_And_How_To_Comply Accessed 3.1.2020

[4] Parry O, Mauthner N. 2004. Whose Data are They Anyway?: Practical, Legal and Ethical Issues in Archiving Qualitative Research Data. Sage. Issues of ownership.


**[&larr; Back to Index](https://github.com/jamesrw94/UoB_group_project)**
